Flightmodes - split takeoff (#2781)
PX4/PX4-user_guide: en/flying/basic_flying.md

## Takeoff

### Multicopter takeoff

> The easiest way to takeoff (after [arming the vehicle](#arm)) is to use the automatic [Takeoff mode (MC)](../flight_modes_mc/takeoff.md).

Reviewer: I wouldn't call this the easiest way to takeoff with a MC. TBH I would completely remove the reference here (it's all about manual flying), or max have a reference further down that takeoff could also be automatic and then the user can take over.
Similar story for FW.

Usually this is triggered from an [RC switch](../config/flight_mode.md) or ground station.

> Multicopter (and VTOL in multicopter mode) pilots can also take off *manually* by enabling [Position mode (MC)](../flight_modes/README.md#position_mc), arming the vehicle, and then raising the throttle stick above 62.5%.

Reviewer: They can takeoff in any manual mode. 
How about:

> Multicopter (and VTOL in multicopter mode) pilots can also take off *manually* by enabling [Position mode (MC)](../flight_modes/README.md#position_mc), arming the vehicle, and then raising the throttle stick above 62.5%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multicopter (and VTOL in multicopter mode) pilots can take off *manually* by enabling any manual mode, arming the vehicle and then raising the throttle stick until the motors produce enough thrust to leave the ground.
In  [Position mode (MC)](../flight_modes/README.md#position_mc) or [Altitude mode (MC)](../flight_modes/README.md#altitude_mc) the altitude is controlled by the controller, and the throttle stick has to be increased to above 62.5% to make the vehicle leave the ground. 

```

The [Failure Detector](../config/safety.md#failure-detector) will automatically stop the engines if there is a problem on takeoff.
:::

### Fixed-wing Takeoff

> Automatic takeoff using [Takeoff mode (FW)](../flight_modes_fw/takeoff.md) is highly recommended for fixed-wing vehicles!

Reviewer: I would link the auto takeoff, but recommend that manually piloted flights are also started manually. If the pilot is not capable of a safe takeoff then the landing, which usually is harder, is likely not going to succeed either. Bette then to do the whole flight in a "auto" mindset, with mission takeoff and mission landing.

You can either [hand-launch](../flight_modes_fw/takeoff.md#catapult-hand-launch) (default) or use [runway takeoff](../flight_modes_fw/takeoff.md#runway-takeoff) (if supported by hardware and configured).

For runway takeoff:

1. Place the vehicle facing the planned takeoff direction (ideally facing the wind)
1. Activate [Takeoff mode (FW)](../flight_modes_fw/takeoff.md)
1. [Arm the vehicle](#arm) using an [RC switch](../config/flight_mode.md) or ground station

   The vehicle will ramp up motors, and fly in the indicated direction, until it reaches the (parameter set) clearance height, then enter Hold mode.

For catapult/hand-launch:

1. Point the vehicle in the direction you want it to take off, in order to set the course (ideally facing the wind)
1. Activate [Takeoff mode (FW)](../flight_modes_fw/takeoff.md)
1. [Arm the vehicle](#arm) using an [RC switch](../config/flight_mode.md) or ground station
1. Throw/launch the vehicle in the direction you want it to take off.

   Motors will start after the launch is detected, after which the behaviour is the same as for runway takeoff.

For more information see [Takeoff mode (FW)](../flight_modes_fw/takeoff.md).

> Using a takeoff item defined in [a mission plan](../flight_modes/mission.md#fw-mission-takeoff) is also recommended.

Author: The manual flying section was very MC specific. I've started building it out with FW stuff as well. My plan is to split this too and put it into MC and FW sections.

I might have put too much here on takeoff, or too little. Thoughts?

Reviewer: too much, see comments above.
